# IDEAL properties for cloud-native applications by Fehling et al. 2014

Fehling, C.; Leymann, F.; Retter, R.; Schupeck, W. & Arbitter, P.
Cloud Computing Patterns 
Springer Vienna, 2014

*   **Distribution**: by nature, cloud environments are large, possibly globally distributed environments that consist of many IT resources (see the resource pooling cloud property). Therefore, cloud applications have to be decomposed into separate application components that can be distributed among resources in this environment.
*   **Elasticity**: cloud applications should by scaled out instead of being scaled up, thus, to address increasing workload the number of resources assigned to a customer or an application is increased, not the capabilities of individual resources. Therefore, in a scaling-out approach, also called horizontal scaling the number of independent IT resources, such as servers, is increased if an application requires more processing power, storage etc. The application, therefore, has to be designed to run on multiple independent resources. In contrast to horizontal scaling, vertical scaling (also called scaling up) refers to the approach of increasing the performance of an application by increasing the capabilities of the IT resources on which it runs without changing their number. While a vertical scaling approach can also be used in the cloud, it is limited by the capabilities of individual IT resources offered by a cloud provider. In addition to being horizontally scalable, cloud applications also need to be elastic. Scalability refers to the ability of the application to increase its performance when additional IT resources are added and often does not consider the removal of these resources. Elasticity specifically focusses on both the dynamic addition and removal of IT resources and demands that the application can add and free IT resources to adjust its performance quickly if the workload changes. This ability is essential to exploit the pay-per-use cloud property.
*   **Isolated state**: a concept that is closely related to elasticity is to design large portions of a cloud application to be stateless, thus, isolating state in small portions of the application. The notion of statelessness commonly refers to session state – the state of a client’s interaction handled by a Web application. We extend this notion to also incorporate application state – the data handled by the application. Session state and application state may severely impact a cloud applications ability to be scaled out either through custom developed management functionality or automatically by the cloud provider. An IT resource that does not hold application state can be added and removed more easily as no state information has to be synchronized to newly provisioned resources or extracted from removed ones. Cloud providers, therefore, often restrict where application state may be handled in automatically scaled applications.
*   **Automated management**: due to the elasticity of a cloud application, resources are constantly added and removed during runtime. These tasks should be automated by monitoring system load and interacting with management interfaces of cloud providers to provision or decommission resources. Many cloud providers do not assure an availability of individual IT resources, such as particular virtual servers, but only for the offering as a whole, i.e., the ability to start new virtual servers. This behavior increases the need for automated management to ensure that a cloud application is failure resistant.
*   **Loose coupling**: as the number of IT resources on which a cloud application relies constantly changes, the dependencies between application components should be minimized. This eases provisioning and decommissioning tasks and also reduces the impact of failing application components. Loose coupling is a well-established concept in distributed applications. This makes related technologies, such as Web services comprising a Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) and asynchronous messaging equally usable and relevant for cloud applications.
